---
title: "What Social Media Has Become"
date: 2023-01-17T00:09:00-06:00
tags:
  - commentary
---

My commentary on what social media _was_ and the problems that it has today.

<!--more-->

Social media is a very complex topic. There are a range of opinions on it, and I
would like to give mine. I want to believe that social media started as place
for people to connect in a way that other forms of communication didn't allow,
or at least didn't allow easily. In its most naïve form, social media is a way
to asynchronously share your day to day experiences and ideas with the people
connected to you in some way. Email and RSS, while being asynchronous, never
really caught on in the sense they could be a decentralized form of social
media.

Email is great at replacing a lot of what postal services have to offer or even
faxes. Where it starts to fall apart as a social media replacement is that there
is a high barrier of entry for both a producer and a consumer. The consumer has
to setup a mailing list[^1], and consumer for every producer they follow, have
to subscribe to a mailing list. RSS is essentially a single producer, multiple
consumer format, but consumers have no real way to interact with content easily
in a way that isn't just read-only[^2].

The earliest form of modern social media I still see referenced is MySpace. Was
it the first social media? Probably not. Was it the first to catch traction? I
would say yes. Eventually MySpace lost traction for various reasons. The next
social media I can think of to catch on was Facebook, which is obviously still
around in 2022. As someone who wasn't around in the MySpace days, which is a lot
of Gen Z if not all, Facebook set the pattern of what modern social media has
become: shares, likes, posts, walls (timelines), direct messages, groups, etc.
All these features make it easy to reach your sphere of influence.

Fast forward from the rise of Facebook to 2022, and the purpose of social media
has really changed. Something that exists in social media today that seemingly
didn't exist when the movement started is the monetization. These days brands go
above and beyond to get influencers to talk about their product. Influencers
themselves seem to be on a war path to make as much money as possible using
social media before their sphere of influence collapses in on them.

Another issue with social media is the advertising as it currently exists in
social media platforms. Think about an advertiser. An advertiser wants to get
the most largest targeted audience they can with the money they are willing to
invest. So what does that mean for a social media company? They want to collect
as much information about you as possible, and people on the platform are more
than willing to give that information up.

This leads us to the final point. Why are people willing to give up so much
information about themselves? As a plain person, I post information about myself
generally to tell my sphere of influence what I am up to, how I feel, or an idea
I had. This is pretty easy to see from my Mastodon account, which happens to be
my most active form of social media that isn't Reddit. Besides people like
myself, we have two other groups, influencers and people that care way too much.

Influencers are another branch of the monetization arm of social media.
Influencers generally start small like the rest of us and grow their followings
to a point where it can be monetized through sponsored posts. Advertisers,
instead of reaching out to the platform itself, identify individuals that have a
following that matches the demographics their campaign is looking for, and work
out deals with them. This leads to a lot of sponsored content on social media
besides the usual ad content.

Now for the last group, the people that care way too damn much, whom I will call
the _artificials_. The artificials are similar to influencers in that a lot of
what they post is within a cloud of insincerity. There is a good litmus test I
have to determine whether one falls into this group:

- Spends too much time trying to come up with a caption.
- Cares about what time of the day the post goes live.
- Touches up photos to find _the_ filter.

Perhaps this test applies a little too much to media-based social media content,
but hopefully you get the idea.

Social media has great aspects. I enjoy catching up with things my friends and
sphere of influence are up to because generally these are people I care about in
some form or fashion. At the end of the day, unfortunately, what social media
has become is not really something I want to be a part of day to day. Naïve
sincerity left a long time ago and will probably never come back as the majority
attitude on social media platforms.

[^1]:
    SourceHut makes this fairly easy however, though it'll eventually cost money
    to be on the platform.

[^2]:
    [Webmentions](https://www.w3.org/TR/webmention/) are a way to kind of get
    consumers interacting with your content, but requires a consumer to have a
    site of their own.
