---
title: "Introduction"
date: 2020-04-11T22:12:20-05:00
tags:
  - introduction
series:
  - me
---

Welcome to my blog. This post is a pretty historic moment for me because I have
been trying to create a personal website for a very long time. I figured I would
create an introduction blog post to introduce any readers to myself.

<!--more-->

My name is Tristan Partin. I am 23 years old at the time of writing this. I am
from Houston, Texas and currently live in Austin, Texas. In May of 2019, I
graduated with a B.S. in Computer Engineering from Texas A&M University.

After graduation, I headed to Austin where I began working as a software
developer for a company called [Expero](https://www.experoinc.com). I worked for
them in College Station during my time in college, so it was a fairly easy
transition to become a full-time salaried employee.

As far as hobbies go, I enjoy things like playing basketball or sports in
general, hanging with friends, programming on various hobby or open-source
projects, and doing an array of outdoor activities. Recently, I bought an
inflatable kayak because I crunched the numbers and figured if I wanted to go
kayaking as often as I intend to, I should make an investment now to save money
for the future. Perfect timing too, since Spring has just arrived. With the
various restrictions around Coronavirus, I haven't gotten to try out the kayak
yet, but I set it up in my living room, and immediately I was quite impressed.
Kayak review coming soon??

I am also a fairly avid motorcycle rider. It is a very refreshing experience to
ride a motorcycle and go exploring, which I have done quite a bit of since the
Coronavirus started spreading in the US. I like to ride a little slower, and
take in my surroundings including nature, architecture, or just to learn more
street names, so I don't have to pull out Google Maps every time I want to go
somewhere.

When I am programming, typically you can find me around various open-source
communities. I am a large Linux user, so open-source is a very big part of my
life. I am in various GNOME channels specifically because I want to someday be a
core contributor. This past year specifically I have put forth a good amount of
effort into learning GNOME technologies more deeply including `GTK`, `GLib`,
`libsoup`, and `json-glib`.

On this blog, you will probably find that for the most part, I am talking about
programming-related topics, but I would expect that every now and again I'll
have something else to talk about. You can definitely expect this blog to be
more than the typical "How to create a React app in 5 easy steps!!!!".

For all the hardcore web users out there who say no to JavaScript, this blog is
a static site generated with Hugo, so you shouldn't have any problems. I also
have RSS links setup throughout the site. Hopefully they all work correctly. If
not, please notify me!

Hopefully you stick around, and we'll see where this goes! Next blog post is
already in the works.
