---
title: "Green Versus Blue"
date: 2021-03-20T22:52:59-05:00
toc: false
tags:
  - commentary
---

The world is full of contrasting colors: white and black, blue and pink, but
what about green and blue?

<!--more-->

In today's day and age, we send messages to our friends and family, and expect
them to be delivered almost instantaneously. Platforms like WhatsApp, Telegram,
Signal, and iMessage have sprung up in the last decade. These platforms
essentially sprung up to fix the shortcomings of the Short Message and
Multimedia Messaging services (SMS/MMS) which most if not all phones are
equipped with. iMessage as a platform is quite unique and will be the focus of
this post.

iMessage was introduced to the world in 2011 with iOS 5. Since then, it has
probably delivered billions of messages to people around the world. It now
supports all of Apple's platforms including the Apple Watch, iPad, and Mac.
iPhone users account for ~47% of cellular users in the United States, and if you
figure every iPhone user is an iMessage user, about 1 in 2 people in the US uses
iMessage. iMessage is different from the other platforms in one unique form. The
only apps that officially run iMessage are the same apps which a user receives
regular cellular text messages from. These apps typically take the name of
"Messages" on Apple platforms. Platforms like Telegram, Signal, and WhatsApp are
totally separate apps from their typical text messaging counterparts. iMessage
has one fairly glaring way of telling users whether a conversation is an
iMessage or text messaging conversation. In a conversation between iMessage
users, each respective person will see their messages as blue. In a conversation
that isn't all iMessage users, each respective person will see their messages as
green.

So why is this a problem?

iMessage, like other platforms, brings loads of features that SMS/MMS
conversations simply don't have. iMessage users grow really accustom to those
features. They grow so accustom to those features that non-iMessage users can
become second-class citizens to them. iMessage users will lament group messages
with "green messages" because the experience is that much worse. In some cases,
non-iMessage users will be left out of group conversations completely because of
this. As someone who recently graduated college, I have first and second-hand
experience. iMessage users will shame their "green message" friends for either
having crappy phones[^1], crappy service providers[^2], or a crappy operating
system, which in many cases is Android. The whole superiority complex among
(some) iMessage users can be purely linked back to Apple's branding and
side-by-side handling of iMessage and text messages. Apple's branding is one of
power. Having the newest iPhone is a symbol much like having fancy shoes,
watches, or cars is a symbol. Many people take this messaging to heart, and the
"green message" issue is a very popular way for iPhone users to flaunt. After a
while, this flaunting, even when said jokingly, gets tiring and comes off as
extremely childish. I am consistently shamed by certain people for being an
Android user, or a "green messages" person.

Tonight this issue was extremely apparent. Georgie and I were at a brewery, when
we joined a bachelorette party full of millennials. We were chatting and just
generally having a good time. I started to talk to these women about my blog,
and this specific blog idea in particular. One of the women in the group
interjects that she got so tired of seeing green messages in conversations with
her husband that she forced him to get an iPhone. How forceful was she? I don't
know. But the fact that this green versus blue issue has become so ingrained in
society has really become an issue and really, it is time for it to stop.

No one is better than anyone else when it comes to what messaging platform they
choose to use. Mine most of the time just happens to be the standard SMS/MMS
which comes on almost every mobile device in existence. Don't shame anyone
because your messages are green when talking to them. We are mainly just people
living in a world ran by a duopoly[^3] where only one side gets access to a
proprietary feature, iMessage. I'll save my rant on the mobile ecosystem for
another time.

[^1]:
    I have the Google Pixel 5, so I doubt it. What is really happening here is
    Apple being poor at supporting standards, SMS and MMS in this case. Apple
    has created a subpar SMS/MMS experience for its users, whether accidentally
    or purposefully, that makes iMessage users want to continue using it.

[^2]:
    Many times the iMessage user and the non-iMessage user share the exact same
    network.

[^3]:
    For some of us, its a monopoly because we don't want to submit to the closed
    ecosystem of Apple products. Librem, please succeed.
