---
title: "Nashvegas"
date: 2021-11-07T22:46:29-05:00
draft: true
---

Bringing Texas swagger to Nashville for a birthday bonanza.

<!--more-->

## Purpose

My firend Clare wanted to celebrate her birthday in Nashville this year.

## Thursday

Thursday I flew out to Nashville at 4:10 PM and arrived at 6:35 PM. I ended up
flying Southwest for much cheaper than any of the other tier 1 airlines. Round
trip was about $200. This was my first time flying Southwest in a while. More
recently I have flown United and American. It feels like the way Southwest does
seating is inherently worse, but it is hard to give a reason other than chaos.
Landing at the Nashville Airport (BNA) was an interesting experience and really
puts into perspective how small the Austin airport is in comparison. During the
flight I read a book a coworker loaned to me about filesystem design.

Upon deplaning, I walked toward ground transportation where I waited for my
friends to land so we could head over to our hotel. We headed to a Courtyard
Mariott at 1901 West End Avenue because it was fairly centrally located which
meant we could walk to many of the places we wanted to go in an effort to avoid
ride shares and save some money. Exercise is always a plus too.

We dropped off our bags at the hotel and got dressed for dinner. Dinner wasn't
particularly special in my opinion, but I also didn't set myself up to be
impressed since I ordered a double cheeseburger. In my defense, it was 40%
cheaper than anything else on the menu. From there, we went back to the hotel
and met up with two of our other friends who had arrived.

To end the night, we went off to a bar called White Limousine. It sits atop a
hotel called The Graduate on the 12th floor. Joseph commented, "Don't think we
are the target audience," and I had to agree. The bar was adorned in pink and
general feminine vibes. The number of men in the bar was pretty much single
digits the entire night. My main complaint about the bar however is that the
music was just too loud. The DJ playing that night was fine, but my ears were
legitimately hurting at the end of the night. The volume also really made it
hard to have a conversation with friends. Despite that the bar did have one
highlight for me: the beer. The beer selection was quite small, but the
selection tasted great, especially for the prices. I had an opportunity to try
three different beers, each for about $5. One was a pumpkin ale, another a
blackberry sour (potentially), and the last a coffee milk stout. Well worth the
$20 bill.

## Friday

Once we were ready, we met up and headed straight to The Gulch, which seemed to
be a little shopping district/mixed-use development close to downtown. For
whatever reason, we settled on Milk + Honey for a morning snack, and I got a
chocolate milk which to my dismay was about $5. When traveling to a new city, I
don't typically recommend eating at chains, especially when they run a racket on
chocolate milk. We ended up stopping at various shops for the women and took
some pictures at various murals. Nothing too special.

For lunch, we went to Party Fowl which is a hot chicken place reviewed fairly
highly. In Austin, we have some hot chicken, the best probably being Tumble 22.
I normally go for the max spice level there, and walk away feeling fine. At
Party Fowl, I ended up getting the second-highest spice level. I was tempted and
pressured to get the top, but the waiter made it sound very scary. After eating
the "Nashiville Hot" level, I can say it really isn't all the spice to me. The
sides here were also very good. My meal consisted of a chicken breast, a side of
mac and cheese, and some begniets. I think Party Fowl is pretty good, but it is
hard to say if it is a cut above the rest while only trying one place.

<!--Warning: I generally like food really spice.-->

After lunch, we walked around a bit more and hit a few more shops before walking
to Nelson's Green Brier Distillery. I have to say this was one of my personal
highlights of the trip. The tour was more like a history lesson into the
founders of the distillery. I found it quite interesting. During the tasting, I
learned how to "chew" my whiskey. We tried a total of 4 drinks. The first one
was the Tennessee Whiskey. Normally I am not a whiskey guy, but I found this to
be fairly palatable. Good flavor and didn't hit you with the taste of alcohol so
hard. Next up was the Bell Meade Bourbon. This one was a tad sweeter and a bit
lighter. Couldn't go wrong with either of these first two in my opinion, and
much better than the Russell's I have sitting at home currently. The third
whiskey was their Reserve. Of the three whiskeys, I would say this one was my
favorite which makes the most sense since it is also the priciest. It felt more
full-bodied than the rest. For the last tasting, it was a coffee liqueor. I have
to say this was probably one of the best liqueors I have ever tasted. It
reminded me of caramel popcorn, which might be a turn off for some people, but
that was just my initial reaction. I plan to buy a handle when I get back to
Texas and probably just enjoy it on the rocks.

Next on the agenda was getting ready for dinner. For dinner, we had a
reservation at a restaurant called The Standard. It is located in a fairly
historical building in downtown. When we showed up, a valet/bouncer (not really
sure what you would call this guy) opened our door and gave us an introduction
to the restaurant. From there, we walked in and were ushered to the bar area
while our table was prepared. The worst thing about the restaurant in my opinion
was the gin and beer selections. The gins were very typical, and none were
locally sourced. Some of the beers may have been locally sourced, but it is hard
to remember. I did get one of their signature cocktails later on in the night,
specifically an amaretto sour. I am not stranger to this drink, but I thought
this one was really well done. The hostess took us into the wine locker room in
the basement/wine cellar. Our table was very secluded which was a huge plus.
Clare had mentioned that getting that room cost an extra $200, but we actually
didn't pay for it. Just by a stroke of total luck did we get seated there. I
would say it was probably the best table I have ever sat at, private and just a
beautiful setting. I happened to order the Chilean Sea Bass which may have been
one of the flakiest pieces of fish I had ever had. I would recommend this dish
to anyone not eyeing the steaks.

After dinner, we headed out to Broadway to check out the bar scene for the first
time. We made it to Tootie's, went straight to the third floor where was
playing. They were the quintessential band for playing your hits from the 80s
through the 2000s with a specialty in teenage angst. We stayed there for a bit
and decided to head out toward the next bar which was Rippy's. On our way, some
of us got separated. One group headed to the second floor of the bar, but I
stayed on the first floor waiting for some people. Immediately I just fell in
love with the band on the first floor. I cannot overstate how good they were.
Essentially they were an 80s cover band with a drummer, keyboardist, bassist, a
tenor sax, and a lead singer/guitarist. I was in the zone listening to them. The
lead singer had _the_ voice to do any 80s song. If I had to pick a best moment
from the weekend, it would have to be listening to them. Hands down. They ended
the night on a 7 minute long rendition of _I Wanna Know What Love Is_ by
Foreigner. I would dare say it was better than the original. They completely
crushed it.

## Saturday

The next day started around 10. The boys headed to Chick-fil-a because we didn't
want to wait forever at the place the girls went to get food.

From there, we headed straight to the Country Music Hall of Fame. We had the
opportunity to listen to a prominent songwriter describe her day-to-day and
special moments in her career. I found the experiencce quite enlightening. Then
we made our way into the museum section. It was nice to see some history on how
the country music genre came to be. Some of the artists had large sections of
the museum dedicated to them, specifically Martina McBride and Kacey Musgraves.
I really appreciated getting more background into their lives and careers.

<!--what the fuck happened to us after this...-->

Saturday night was our second night on Broadway. We did a little bit more bar
hopping this night, but honestly none of the acts lived up to the 80s cover band
of the previous night.

## Sunday

Sunday started off with brunch (where?). The restaurant was a multi-floor
establishment which I thought was pretty interesting. Didn't really like the
food was anything special however. We were kind of in a rush.

Our next event was one of those pedal tours you can catch in many other places.
The girls went to grab some mimose beers. I was skeptical at first, but it ended
up tasting quite good. Anyways, the boys walked over to the place where we were
meeting our guide, and then the girls met us afterward. The tour was pretty fun.
Our guide was excellent, and the music choices were on point. We stopped at one
point and got some good group pictures.

After the pedal tour, then what....
